# Workflow-2023-01

What does my current workflow look like now?
[[ProtocolRSS]]
[[akti]]
applescript + limni

jounal -> C -> B -> A
Time-based buffer -> Affinity based buffer -> outlines -> knowledge

___

# Why it does look like so?

<[Writing is Learning: How I Learned an Easier Way to Write](https://eugeneyan.com/writing/reading-note-taking-writing/)>

“Writing is not what follows research, learning, or studying. It is the medium of all this work” - How to Take Smart Notes (Sönke Ahrens)

"Read with the intention to write; What are the open ideas for exploration?"

"Writing is not the outcome of thinking. It __IS__ thinking. "

___

<[Stop Relying on a Source and Have Faith in Your own Thoughts • Zettelkasten Method](https://zettelkasten.de/posts/dont-rely-on-source-have-faith-in-yourself/)>

The desire to have all of the information of a text available made me collect files and papers and books: I had fallen for the Collector’s Fallacy.

From there it follows that information is not a property of things in the world. Instead, information is part of our interpretation.
___

To make the most of a connection, always state explicitly why you made it. This is the link context. An example link context looks like this:

[Introduction to the Zettelkasten Method • Zettelkasten Method](https://zettelkasten.de/introduction/)

___

[Three Layers of Evidence • Zettelkasten Method](https://zettelkasten.de/posts/layers-of-evidence/)

In a zettelkasten - if done correctly - there will emerge layers of evidence. These layers represent the necessary processing steps from data of knowledge.

1. Data description and patterns
    * Phenomenological layer
2. Interpretation of descriptions and patterns
    Theories are supergrafile; they come and go
3. Synthesis of patterns, descriptions and interpretation

* Divide those layers
* Read and learn with those layers in mind
