# 2022-04-14

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yfsmc0b8o78>

The compiler serves two masters , and carries some authority from each to perform its duties; it has no way to set them apart.
    Confused deputy

The browser is a confused deputy.
    . It  has authorization to call an authenticated request ; but this can me misused by making a xss

 this can be seem as a way to developing Capability-base security ( ??? )

#

#

<https://codecraft.co/2013/03/05/are-you-losing-enough-battles/>

"Once you have 40 to 70 percent information, go with your gut"

#

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c6Jl88cImxc>

Aligned autonomy is an ongoing struggle
    . "[ I feel free to act and fully engage] to [achieve a greater purpose]"

Air Sandwich
    . "Clear vision and future direction"
    .     ?
    . "Day to day action"

Hypergrowth
Politics
    . People are not clones, having different perspectives and interests. Its useful to start by being curious rather than assuming bad faith ; this is not equivalent to no politics

Most people assume they've communicated when they transmit, but there are four other states
    . Transmitted
    . Received
    . Understood
    . Agreed
    . Converted to useful action

CatchBall
    . Back and forth [ multiple ]
    . Not one-way
    . Big crowds doesn't generate back and forth.
        . "I'm Sure they know we're depending on them"
        . "We've marked them as a dependency in a spreadsheet that none of us regularly check"

Rhythm
    . Serendipity informality when small ; deliberate explicit when big
    . "The larger the meeting the longer it takes to get to depth"
    . we add people on the first place to have more perspectives.

Boundary Objects
    . Refers to an object ( physical or mental ) that allows groups with different goals to coordinate their actions
    . Facilitates real over fake alignment.
    . Examples
        . Metaphors
        . Flywheels ( ??? )
        . Design Hierarchy of needs ( medium.theuxblog.com/design-hierarchy-of-needs-the-prodct-owners-guide-29ceb28205ae )
        . Process / Journey Map
        . System Context Diagrams ( eg. C4 Model)
        . Cause and effect diagrams ( not great )
    . If its too simple, its misleading; if its too fancy, its confusing.
    . Balancing act - never done

Growth
    . Can't assume stable teams
    . Can't rely on cultural osmosis :
        .. The new-people outnumber the older
        .. Default culture becomes whatever people bring , UNLESS , you're much more deliberate about occupying that space.

        .. Presumptive splits don't do good. 
    . Make structure follow strategy 

Organic Org design
    . Wait for seams to appear
    . Nudge things apart
    . Formalize the split

Edgar Schein 3 Levels of culture
    . Artifacts
    . Espoused Belief and values
    . Basic Underlying Assumptions

Richard Rumelt Strategy kernel
    . Diagnosis
    . Guiding Policy
    . Coherent Actions

Systems Leadership ( Ian Macdonald, Catherine Burke and Karl Stewart)
    . Role Modelling
    . Systems ( Processes, tools, etc. )
    . Symbols ( )

If it hurts, do it more often

#

<https://codecraft.co/2012/10/23/on-seps-squirrels-and-meta-questions/>

Innatentional blindness can be a good thing. Being able to zero in on a particular block of code, to the excl usion of the guy sneezing on the next cube is healthyl.

However, superb engineers have a capacity to see through the cloak of somebody else's problem; they think simultaneously o multiple levels of abstraction. They tend to ask "meta questions" that poke at larger issues, broader contexts aand more distant time horizons.

"Seeklcts meta qestions that tes assumptions or uncover misalignments as rapidly as possible"

"Plenty opf problems don't merit deep t hinking. The zen master found time for our example iossue by judiciously ignoring others, even tih iportant issues, you don't have to think at all these levels all the time. just being aware of broader contexts and probing them ocasioanlly will bring benefits to your team.

#

<https://codecraft.co/2012/10/22/unencapsulate-yourself/>

"Organizations that encapsulate people into layers r silos map nicely onto this through experiment. If you want to build a new feature,you ping-pong around to various specialists. Communications by document is the norm. Use cases are written in terms of a horizontal layer; Nobody seems to remember tgat the top of the stack is the entire universe as far as the user is concerned"

"Give me a proactive first class generalist in a siloed org and i will give you a high-leverage change-maker that's a linchpin for company success. They will be invited to every meeting, cut through ambivalence, see the big picture and make smart tradeoff. they'll lubricate the cogs of the machine in a way that an equally smart, but siloed, technical pro cannot."

#

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B5Vw6H3oSD8>

DNS has
    Udp Header
        Source Port
        Destination Port
        Metadata

    DNS Data
        Query Id
        Metadata
        DNS  

tcp half open?
reflection attacks

#

#

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pLRztKYvMLk>

We use the fundamental blocks fo infrastructure all the time, but Some of the fundamentals problems do not go away;

"Uses hash cavity 2 to get a temporary view over the time series "

Cacheing is a 'solved' problem
many solutions
    . Mcached
    . Redis
    . SlimCachce
    . FatCache
. Many Ways to fall below SLA
    . Tail Latencies
    . QPS

. Hotkeys and DDOS
    . Backpressure is not part of the design

. Hard to debug

.  capacity planning surprises
    .. external fragmentation is a bitch
    .. Connections keep a live
    .. Running on containers means that going over the planned resources will kill your job, which is *very* bad for stateful services, like cache.

Cache we want
    . Covers all our use cases
    . Easy and fun to work on
    . Is production ready
        .. What is production-readiness, even?
        .. Eg. Log Rotation -> Can't use their solution without their context

Production Ready
    . Predictable
        .. Tail-Latency and performance
        .. Failure Behaviour and degradation
        .. Resource footprint
    . Observable
        .. Ready to be monitored
        .. Debuggable
        .. Reveals internal flow
        .. Analytics-friendly
    . Flexible
        .. configurable
        .. Composable
        .. Quick to develop features

Structural Integrity first , then code-reuse
    . Careful with over-generalization

Log , Stats, Config
    . Ubiquitous paradigms
    . Make them cheap, configurable
    . Make them composable
        .. Waitless Logging
        .. Lockless Stats
        .. Modular Config

 Cuckoo hashing ( ??? )

#

<https://minimizingregret.wordpress.com/2016/03/02/making-second-order-methods-practical-for-machine-learning/>

usually , second order methods are too costly to be implemented in production.
    . Can be show to converge to the optimium of a quadreatic function in a single iteration , but requires the calculation of the hessian and a matrix inversion, which is naively O( n^3 )
        .. Usually, its better to not invert the matrix, but solve the linear system . <https://scicomp.stackexchange.com/questions/26423/practical-example-of-why-it-is-not-good-to-invert-a-matrix>
        .. Could also take an spectral approximation ( ?? ) approach to speed up inversion .
    . Neumann Series ( ?? )

#

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D7JBJ72R_I4>

Intro to theory of computation

What is Computation? What are things that computers can do?
    .
why we care
    .

#

Png have no such problems of loss-y compression

LossLess Compression -> Exploit redundancy
    . Huffman codes -  Use smaller 'Ids' to represent more frequent values.
        .. However, it treat values independently of each other : Images often are spacially correlated.
    . Run-Length encoding
    . Lempel-Zib Schemes / LZSS
        .. Allowing the length to be greater than the offset gives us run-length encoding for free.
        .. Gradient breaks it.

When encountering a hard problem, we can either think of a new solution, or transfrom the problem into one for which we already know the solution.
    . Png chooses to  transform , by defining a filtering step ( Either None, Sub, Up , Avg , Paeth ) before LZSS encoding.
    . Usually, these are done separately in each of the RGB Channels.
    . How to choose? Heuristic -> Mimimum sum of absolute differences

QOI
    . Comparable to png, up to 50x faster
