# 2022-04-16

Question 1
    . Dunno

Question 4
    . Need to understand the SAML and STS  / SSO better.

Question 5
    . Understand better the possible storage volumes.

Question 11
    . Understand the VPN stuff better. Direct Connects, Link Aggregation Groups
    . Understand System Manager stuff better.

Question 15
    . CloudFormation and Secrets Manager

Question 27
    . better understanding of Transfer Acceleration
Question 28
    . Better understanding of the VM-related stuff
Question 32
    . Better understanding of the IAM users / roles when interacting with multiple accounts.
Question 33
    . Better understanding of the transit-gateway / transit vpc.
Question 44:
    . Better understanding of migration tech: AWS Server Migration Service , application discovery service and the migration hub.
question 70
    . Nat gateway vs egress-only
question 71
    . Federated access, SAML, idP

By the way, i need to disable my own infrastructure on aws.

#

<https://lexi-lambda.github.io/blog/2020/11/01/names-are-not-type-safety/>

"
In a sense, opaque types are like tokens. The implementing module issue tokens via its smart constructors, an the only way to do anything useful with them is to redeem them to the issuing module functions, to obtain the values contained within.
"

"taxonomies ( names ) are useful for documenting a domain of interest, but not necessarily helpful for modelling it"

<https://lexi-lambda.github.io/blog/2020/08/13/types-as-axioms-or-playing-god-with-static-types/>

What is a type?

    . Restriction
        .. Example: Typescript

#

How could i enrich my texts with metadata / information?
    . My first thought was to coalesce almost everything into a single file.
        . Separate only read and queue.
        . Add possible annotations?

What is the reasoning behind each list here?
Articles good and premium seems auto-explained. What is the unsure for?

Maybe applying the same thought process behind the overall zettelkasten may be a good idea?
    .. Having a stream of data that is then coalesced into a more structured output?
        .. That can surely be the case.

What are some interesting attributes?

#

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Iz7PSlTpjyI>

This seems like a very good video to try and *really* understand what is going on.

#

<http://raganwald.com/2016/11/30/anamorphisms-in-javascript.html>

Anamorphisms are functions that map from some object to a more complex structure containing the type of the object. For example, mapping from an integer to a list of integers.

Linear recursion is a special case of divide-and-conquer
    .. Recursion Types

Writing traversals separates the concern of how to iterate over a data structure from the concern of what to do with the elements of the data structure.
