# 2022-03-20

What is left to do is:
    Feedly
        Re-Follow sources, after sifting them.

    Evernote        
        "Import" the remaining posts and books from evernote.
    Youtube
        Go through the remaining subscribed youtube channels in my serious account selecting their interesting videos.
            . Put them here
    
    Once these are all consolidated  do:
        . Remove duplicates
        . Gather "TopLevel" domains make sure i'm following them.
            . Also do a "frequency" by domain
                "Domain A": "23 posts marked" 
                ... 

    https://blog.plover.com/math/se/notation.html
        . Notation is indeed a very powerful / important and often undervalued concept.
        . It's not sufficient for a system of notation to have a way of expressing every result; it has to be able to express every possible computation.
            .. This seems very profound, but i have yet to fully digest  its meaning
            .. It seems to imply that a result is not simply the value of following its computations
            .. But what are computations, even? Or results. This question arrives even if we're not distinguisuing these two concepts.
            .. Interesting to note that even today we do not have the proper tools to denote every single computation.
            .. Is a computation tied down to a 'Perspective'?  are there ways to convert between 'Pespectives' purelly mecanichally, by meana of transforming their notations?
        . On a tangent, notation is just a form of representing the problem
            .. Relate with domain modeling?

    On Sucess:
        Atlas struggle becomes everyday more real.
        Our real goal and fulfilment doesn't come from reach the summit, but from the pain of rolling the ball. Thus, suffering / struggle not only is necessary to reach our potential, it is the actual goal.

    You're not   stuck in traffic, you're traffic.

# I Reviewed these sources today
