# 2022-04-25

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o5S0-_vniiM>

ip has a protocol header, added after the fact as metadata  for better performance / blocking ;

there are multiple path from a source to another destination
    . its possible a packet takes one route, and another takes a second path

the ip

____

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CjUdp1UY3uM>

SSD is a block device. You can only read and write in blocks - Usually 4k bytes sizes.

Blocks are a storage of pages.

How do we know the address of those blocks?
    . The application could just send a "update block 10" -> The ssd moves stuff around all the time
    . So, we use the Logical Block Addressing - The ssd internally creates and maintain a mapping from logical to physical block.
        .. the Flash Translation Layer is what does this mapping.
        .. Where does it store the mapping? DRAM
        .. This mapping can be smaller if we use a coarser block size, and vice-versa
            ... If we do a page-level addressing, it requires large amounts of ram.
    .. WHy does it needs it anyway??

Erase Unit
    .. To write to a block, we must first erase its previous contents.
    .. We could send a a Erase and then a Write - But then things egt slow, since we're doing 2 operations.
    .. Erasing is expensive at ssd - so we do it in large units
    .. To erase, a physical larger current is applied to the cell - Over time , this wears the cell down

Namespaces
    Helps with multi-tenancy

SSDs do Garbage Collection
    . There is no guarantees about the contiguity of data from each file
    . When writing and updating files, the blocks aren't immediately erased, just marked as invalid.
    . At some point, every block is in use or invalid, so we must clean the space somehow.
    . We must them, clean an erase unit - but it isn't completely invalid, it contain good blocks.
    . So, we must pick the good data and place it temporally to some place - but the ssd is full, so -
    . we place it in an area called over-provisioning -> It is dedicated for the system.  -> Paid , but not used
    . The process of writing to a buffer, erasing the unit, then writing it back generates write amplification ( 4x )
    . During this garbage collection time, reads to file which contains blocks at the erase unit are blocked ;

Wear Leveling
    . Data access is not uniform - There are places that are cold and others that are hot.
    . Therefore, the hot cells wear out first.
    . The ssd then moves cold and hot data around to level the wear out.

#
