# 2022-05-22

BEM methodology

Block
Element
Modifier

A block is something ( What, rather than how).
An element is a component of a *block* [ not another element] that can't be disassociated from it. Is is also a "What" rather than a "how"
A Modifier is an adjective ( how, rather than what) that specifies the state or characteristics.

The nomenclature follows:
    block-name__element-name_modifier-name_modifier-value.

modifier can't be used in isolation from the modified block or element. A modifier should change the appearance, behavior, or state of the entity, not replace it.

___

Self Licensing
    . Happens when people allow themselves to indulge after doing something positive at first.
    . Eg. Drinking a diet soda -> then greasy hamburger.

___

<https://engineering.fb.com/2021/02/09/developer-tools/minesweeper/>

PrefixSpan is an algorithmn which is well known for being highly efficcient at sequential pattern mining.

Facebook uses it in its Root Cause Analysis automation , called Minesweeper.
It finds patterns with good Precision , Recall , F1 between  Bug and Bug-free traces. It also tries to remove redundant Patterns.

___

<https://engineering.fb.com/2019/04/25/developer-tools/f14/>

Faceboko has their own implementation of hashtables, called F14 , embbedded inside Folly , their open source C++ library.

It tries to be a good default usage, when considering questions such as

* "How long are the references kept"
* "Do you care more about cpu or memory"
* How big are the ekys
* How big are your tables
* How much do your insert / search / iterate
  
It improves the practice of hashing by using vector instructs, and providing multiple memory layouts.

The problem with hash tables comes from collisions. The possibility of collisions creates unpredictable control flow, requring extra memory accesses, and being hard to branch-predict and cpu-pipeline.

F14 works around this by pointing the kep to a block of slots, instead of to a single slots, then searching withing the chunk in parallel using vector instructions.

Other problem with probing is that they keep looking until they fiund a empty slot: that makes erasing keys tricky: since the same keys must be produced, the algo must leave a tombnstone ( a empty slot that doesn't terminate the probe search ) or slide down the later keys in the problem sequence.

___

Binary trees can have multiple types:

* A __root__ binary tree has a root node, and every node has at most two children.
* A __full__ ( or proper ) is a tree in which every node has either 0 or 2 children.
* A __perfect__ - all interior nodes have two children and all leaves have the same depth
* a __complete__ , in which all levels ( except the last ) is completely filled, and all nodes in the last level are as far left as possible: A perfect tree is always complete, but a complete tree is not necessarily perfect. A complete binary tree can be efficiently represented using an array.
  * A heap is a specialized complete tree, that satisfies the HEAP PROPERTY. Its one maximilalyl efficient implementation of an abstract data type called a priority queue.
* A __balanced__ binary tree is a binary tree structure in which the left anr right substrees of every node differ in height by no more than 1.
* A __degenerate__ tree is where each paretn node has only one associated child node, which means the tree will behave like a linked list.
  
___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kxMKnx__uso>

write about this talk;

Book: How complex systems fail
___

<https://eugeneyan.com/writing/reading-note-taking-writing/>

“Writing is not what follows research, learning, or studying. It is the medium of all this work” - How to Take Smart Notes (Sönke Ahrens)

"Read with the intention to write; What are the open ideas for exploration?"

"Writing is not the outcome of thinking. It __IS__ thinking. "
