# 2022-05-16

thinking about how to push more safety into the type system.

An example is the writing of content to a file. Suppose we have a function with such signature:

```python
def writeTo( content : byte[], path : String ) -> None: 
    ...
```

There are many dimensions in which this operation can go awry, but in this exercise, I'll worry about only some:

1. The path argument needs to be a valid OS Path.
2. The process needs to have permission for writing to it.

The first condition is easily pushed to the type system using smart constructors

```python

def createPath( path : String ) -> Option[ OSPath ]:
    ...

def writeTo( content : byte[], path : OSPath ) -> None:
    ...

```

This pushes the writeTo function towards "more totality", as many errors are now pushed outside its boundaries.

The second condition is also encode-able via the type system - such an example would be

```python
def createPath( path : String ) -> Option[ OSPath ]:
    ...

def writablePath( path : OSPath ) -> Option[ Writable[ OSPath] ]:
    ...

def writeTo( content : byte[], path : Writable[ OSPath]  ) -> None:
    ...    
```

This is all nice and dandy - however - it seems to fall flat when trying to encode more and more restrictions.

Suppose we also had the requirement that the path must also be executable. An approach would be to just Wrap the already given type again.

```python
def writeTo( content : byte[], path : Executable[ Writable[ OSPath] ]  ) -> None:
    ...
```

This is a Problem because `Executable[ Writable [ OSPath] ] != Writable[Executable[ OSPath] ]`

Creating a Non-Generic sub-type of the Path does work - however, it requires exponential sub-typing: one for each combination of "qualifiers".

My questions are 2:

* What is the name of this?
* Is there a way to satisfy our requirements?

___

Data Structures

|E| ~ |V|^2 ( At most )

Adjacency Matrix:

* n*n array with a 1 whenever there's an edge connecting ( r, c ), and a 0 otherwise.
* O( n^2 )

Edge List:

* For each vertex, store a list of all other vertices that this vertex points to.
* O( n * m )

These representations are good at different things. If we're doing a lot of operations such as lookups at the neighbors of a vertex, we just need to scan through the list of the edge list.

The presence or absence of a particular edge is O( 1 ) from the adjacency Matrix

A Path is a sequence of vertices ( v1, v2, ..., Vk)

* It is simple if it has no repeated vertex
* If v1 == Vk, it is a cycle.

Vertices are connected if a there is a path between them
THe connected component of a vertex V is { u | u connected to V}

function traverse( G, s ):

    initialize frontier = { s }
    initialize visited = { }

    while frontier is not empty:
        v = remove from frontier [1]
        add v to visited [ 2 ]
        for each neighbor n of v:
            if n not in visited:
                add n to frontier

[ 1 ]

* If it is a queue, it is equivalent to BFS
* If it is a stack, it is equivalent to DFS
* If it is a priority queue, it is equivalent to Dijkstra's

[ 2 ]

* We might mark a node as visited when we take it out from the frontier or when we put it into the frontier
* This can make it more or less efficient in certain circumstances

For each of these modifications, we might need to reconsider the correctness proofs.

we can more quickly find the strongly connected components of a directed graph by creating a rev graph. Then we can intersect the weakly connected components of the rev and original graph.

DFS will only traverse one component ( not all ) of a graph.
DFS may not traverse the entire component.
How to identify cycles in a graph:

* todo

A topological ordering of a Directed Acyclic Graph ( G = (V, E) ) is a list of each vertex v such that for every edge ( i, v ) u precedes v in the list.

* It is always possible to produce such a topological ordering if we have no cycles.
* In every dag, there is at least ONE vertex with out-degree = 0
* In every dag, there is at least ONE vertex with in-degree = 0
* We can find the vertex with minimum in-degree, putting it at the beginning of the list. Then, remove this vertex and its edges from the graph. Repeating this operation produces a topological sort.

___

greedy

Sort by Some criterion
Process in sorted order

ex

G = [ ]
sort requests by [ criterion ]
for req in sorted order:
    if req compatible with G:
        add req to G

Proof techniques:

* Stays Ahead
* Exchange Argument
* Matching bounds

___

Spanning trees
    pick a subset of the edges such that the graph remains connected, but we have no cycles

An undirected graph is connected if all vertices are in the same connected component
In a connected graph G( V, E ), a spanning tree is a subgraph ( V, T) where T <= E, |T| = n - 1 and ( V, T ) is connected

If G is also a weighted graph, the minimum spanning tree is the spanning tree with the smallest total weight.

MST comes up in many different contexts, E.G: Constructing a grid of internet/power within a country. If we have a graph where the vertexes represent different cities, and the edges are potential connections we could build, if we find a spanning tree then we've found the minimum amount of edges/distance we could use.
  
Three Algos:

* Prim's Algorithm: Pick the cheapest that has a leg inside and a leg outside our boundaries.
* Kruskal Algorithm: Pick the cheapest anywhere, as long as it does not create a cycle.
* Reverse-Delete Algorithm: Remove the costliest, as long as it does not disconnect the components.

___

Bottom-Up Approach

* Solve sub-problems in increasing order
* Fill in a table of sub-problem solutions
* Compare several smaller solutions to determine the best solutions for the current problem

Dynamic Programming

* Divide into sub-problems
* Solve sub-problem recursively
* On each recursive call, Start by checking if it is already solved, finishing by caching into the table.
  
___

what do i want to do with this canHome thing?

But what is the Origin of these nulls to begin with?

Also, want to solve the encoding issues.
Also, want to add "Time estimates"
Also, want to progress with Analysis.

Which others sections do we have?
 Tools.
 Premium
 Good
 Explore / Partial
