---
type: daily-note
created_on: 2023/01/03 15:52
---
    
# 2023/01/03

<[Noguchi Filing System - Blog - Get Everything Done](http://markforster.squarespace.com/blog/2008/6/9/noguchi-filing-system.html)>

"Place the last used item always to the left. This means that ordering is preserved, as its easier to find things."

___

<[Interviewing is a noisy prediction problem · Erik Bernhardsson](https://erikbern.com/2018/05/02/interviewing-is-a-noisy-prediction-problem.html)>

Interviewing is a noisy prediction problem.

* Should be thought of as information gathering
* Consciously design the process to be the most predictive of future job performance.
* High Sinal-to-noise ration, and low-correlation with each other.

We end up with a matrix :

ApplicantId | Algorithmns | System Design | Gradles | Portifolio | Actual performance

How to measure job performance though? -> No way, find a proxy.

* avoid unstructured interviews
* avoid problems that rely on a single (insight | trick ) to solve.
* candidate should talk as much as possible -> However, interviewewr keeps driving ( Opportunity Costs).
* Certains signals can be good, but have a ton of false negatives -> Their presence is good, but their absence isn't a big deal.
* Having *many* short interview questions that rely on knowing particular things.
* Reading code ( java, unix, regex, sql ... ) can be valuable -> cover lots of ground, spending little time on each problem

On modelling such:
Regressing on the matrix is super noisy - noisy nature of the measuring devices , survivorship biases, low number of observations

Separate trick for judgement:

* What would i have to see in order for me to change my mind about this candidate? Both for positive and negative impressions.

Going backwards is also possible:

* Look at the current top perforamers at your company, and ask yourself: what type of interview would have selected these people?

___

<[Iterate or die · Erik Bernhardsson](https://erikbern.com/2016/03/02/iterate-or-die.html)>

The speed at which a company innovates is limited by its iteration speed.

"Many companies use Agile as a way to deliver software often, but not as a way to learn quickly. If you're not constantly monitoring usage and adjusting your path then you are not learning."

___

<[Optimizing for iteration speed · Erik Bernhardsson](https://erikbern.com/2017/07/06/optimizing-for-iteration-speed.html)>

"Mean time to recovery is more important than mean time between failures"
"When optimizing for a tight feedback loop, cross-functional teams make more sense then skill-splits"

___
<[The mathematical principles of management · Erik Bernhardsson](https://erikbern.com/2017/04/09/the-mathematical-principles-of-management.html)>

Topics that would be nice:

1. Decision making with perfect information
    * Most basic case
    * What is the breakeven time if we upgrade our widget making machine for $x so that it can make y more widgets per day
    * Concepts:
        * ROI
        * Diminishing returns
        * Marginal ROI vs average
        * Price sensitivity
        * Time allocation -> Lagrande multipliers and the principle of optimizing striving for equal marginal ROI
        * Opportunity Cost
        * Pipeline / Constraint thinking
2. Decision making given uncertainty
    * Concepts:
        * Prior beliefes and bayes rules
        * Explore vs exploid ( + Thompson sampling )
        * Rapid iteration vs long term planning ( hardware vs software development )
        * Proxy metrics
        * A/B testing
        * Known unknowns vs unknown unknowns
3. People management
    * Concepts :
        * Marxism and the theory that history is a struggle beetween employers and employees
        * Taylorism and the first wave of scientific management
        * How performance bonuses incentivizes risk taking?
        * Why it is so hard for companies to change?
    * Information assymetry:
        * Efficient meeting culture ( Think about it as a 1,000 person company where each person is a modem that can do like 30 baud. How do you organize to propagate information the fastest from top to bottom (and then back up?) )
    * Bounded rationality
4. Operating in a market
    * Concepts:
        * Completitive advantage
        * Market of people ( recruiting )
        * Moats: network effects ( Metcalfe's law) , scale advantages, proprietary technology, regulatory capture
        * Collusion and defection
        * Branding
        * Suppliers and wholesale transfer pricing
        * Induced Demand
        * First mover advantage
        * Case studies

___

<[State drift · Erik Bernhardsson](https://erikbern.com/2016/09/08/state-drift.html)>

How to build self-correction into systems?

`state drift` -> two components that synchronize state ( like a producer and a consumer )-> If care isn't taken, the state in the observer will start to drift away from what it's supposed to be.

Examples:

* Service updates over email
* Webhooks -> rarely redelivery guarantees
  
* If you lose a single delta, and there is no way to self-correct, it's game over.

We can do full state reconciliation
Examples:

* Video compression and key frames

Or we can have strong guarantees of the deltas , such as `Kafka`

___

<[Why organizations fail · Erik Bernhardsson](https://erikbern.com/2016/04/18/why-organizations-fail.html)>

"There is no intrinsic value of beautiful code and no intrinsic value of tech debt"
Why can't everyone just come in in the bmorning and ask themselves 'what is the highest ROI thing i can do today?' and then just do it?

1. Incentive problems
2. Bounded rationality

This makes management break down recursive:

1. Make sure people interests are aligned with the company
2. Make sure everyone in the team has the necessary information they need.

____
[σ-driven project management: when is the optimal time to give up? · Erik Bernhardsson](https://erikbern.com/2022/04/05/sigma-driven-project-management-when-is-the-optimal-time-to-give-up.html)

Define the blowup factor to be the ratio of actual vs estimated.
Blowup factors will follow a standard log-normal distribution, parametrized by σ.

Its CDF It always passes the point ( 1, 0.5 ), but depending on σ , the distribution is very different:
The thesis is that σ is an inherent property of the type of risk you have in your project Portifolio, and that different values for σ warrant very different types of project management

[Why software projects take longer than you think: a statistical model · Erik Bernhardsson](https://erikbern.com/2019/04/15/why-software-projects-take-longer-than-you-think-a-statistical-model.html) very related

___

<https://erikbern.com/2020/12/16/giving-more-tools-to-software-engineers-the-reorganization-of-the-factory.html>

The difference with software engineers is that demand grows when the cost goes down. Your aunt's dental practice didn't use to have a website, but now it's worth having a whole online booking system. The school your kids go to suddently has an app to send updates to parents. I don't know — my point is, with price going down, more demand opens up.

___
[Never attribute to stupidity that which is adequately explained by opportunity cost · Erik Bernhardsson](https://erikbern.com/2020/03/10/never-attribute-to-stupidity-that-which-is-adequately-explained-by-opportunity-cost.html)

Ideas will be generated much faster than there's bandwidth to execute on them, so you're doing something right if your backlog is growing indefinitely. A negative person on a mediocre team will complain that there's never time to work on their favorite pet project X. I've often heard things like “our backlog of features keeps growing so fast, how are we ever going to have time to invest in paying down tech debt?".

To me this reflects a misunderstanding of how product development should work. Backlogs should be growing indefinitely

___

[How To Use Creative Techniques Within the Zettelkasten Framework • Zettelkasten Method](https://zettelkasten.de/posts/creative-technique-within-zettelkasten-framework/)

take one idea (X) and put it in the centre
imagine the four compass directions. each direction helps give definition to the idea in different ways.
NORTH: “Where does X come from?” what are its origin? what group/category does X belong to? what exists an order of magnitude higher? zoom out. what gave birth to X? what causes X
WEST: “What is similar to X?” what other disciplines could X already exist in? what other disciplines could benefit from X? what are other ways to say/do X?
SOUTH: “Where can X lead to?” what does X contribute to? what group/category could X be the headline of? what exists an order of magnitude lower? zoom in. what does X nurture?
EAST: “What competes with X?” what is the opposite of X? what is X missing? its disadvantage? what could supercharge X?
The Zettelkasten structure created around the idea could look something like this:
NORTH
The Idea
SOUTH
EAST
WEST
Source

The zettelkasten is a framework within we think, carry thought forward, merge thoughts, or separate their components. That we write notes, create new ones and link them in the process is merely the physical or digital manifestation of our thinking. Link knowledge and not notes.

Choose an idea and place it in the center.
Think of each leaf as an aspect of the thought that is needed to fully develop it. The thought blossoms like a flower.
Truth: Are there arguments for its truth? Is there empirical evidence for its truth? Is it free of self-contradiction?
Relevance: To whom is the thought important? To whom is it not?
Usefulness: What problem can be solved by the thought? Can it become a tool?
Beauty: How does the thought promote harmony and elegance?
Simplicity How can you make the thought simpler and easier to understand? Can the thought be used to simplify something else?
(The resulting structure in your Zettelkasten, however, depends on the individual thought).

Closed creative techniques are usually questions or sets of questions that provide a direction of exploration from a known starting point.
Open creative techniques, on the other hand, are ways of exploration. An example of an open-ended creative technique would be to write a journal entry for a book character to get to know him or her better, or Mind-Mapping.

___

[The Barbell Method of Reading • Zettelkasten Method](https://zettelkasten.de/posts/barbell-method-reading/)

This means that we have to serve two demands:

We want to read a lot. We want to have a high influx of information.
We want to direct our efforts at the best books (and articles) and invest only a necessary minimum of attention into the low quality content.

[[PatternExplorationExploitation]]

This reveals the problem we face if we just apply speed reading techniques. We increase opportunities but fail to make use of them.

___

To make the most of a connection, always state explicitly why you made it. This is the link context. An example link context looks like this:

[Introduction to the Zettelkasten Method • Zettelkasten Method](https://zettelkasten.de/introduction/)

___

<[Stop Relying on a Source and Have Faith in Your own Thoughts • Zettelkasten Method](https://zettelkasten.de/posts/dont-rely-on-source-have-faith-in-yourself/)>

The desire to have all of the information of a text available made me collect files and papers and books: I had fallen for the Collector’s Fallacy.

From there it follows that information is not a property of things in the world. Instead, information is part of our interpretation.

___
 There are two different types of tags:

 1. Tags for topics: you use tags to group notes under a topic
 2. Tags for objects: you use tags to group notes around an object - real or conceptual

<https://zettelkasten.de/posts/object-tags-vs-topic-tags/>

A topic might be a somewhat arbitrary umbrella. If i write about nutrition i can include topics like environment issues, ethics . . . but i could also exclude them arbitrarily
An object is some empirical or theoretical entity that is more rigidly ....
`diet and fasting are two of six categories in my work on lifestyle. these are not topics but principles and therefore abstract entities in my work.`
