2023-08-31

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mxURe-EUmAs>

"For the longest time we used to think that forgetting was a passive process;
that the things we failed to memorized fully and if it failed, we were left
iwth the default, which was forggeing .
Forgetting is it own active process, with its own neurotransmitters, its own
pathways. Memoriztion and forgetting are two separate active processes.

> Forgetting, the benefits of not remembering

Information is not stored into a atomic package. Almost everything has tags or
cues attached to it. When retrieving, we look for the tag first, and look at the memories associated with it.
When a cue has too many tags associated with it () our brains tries to forget them. This is called
`Transient forggeting`

example of tag overload
"
Who is abraham lincoln?

I remember being taught this.
I remember that it was by the new history teacher
It was on the bottom right side of my text-book
It was on christmas...
"

attentional control system

- grabs things from short term memory and put them into the long term storage

The way to work around this is using `novelty`: New, uniqyue, strong cues == not forgetting
e.g. Drop

> Could this explain why multi-modal learning is more efficient?

A huge promotor of forgetting is learning.
Some new information overrides the old ones.
This is called `Proactive Inhibition`

- When there is an intereference of previous learning that leads to forgetting.

How to avoid this? Not by not learning, but by being strategic about cramming.

- night before cramming: only revise-cram
- long-term cramming: add mini-recall ( link new info with the old one )

memories are meant to enable better `decision making`.
This is called `conceptual memory`.
"It can be very powerful:  ideas connect so well that they end up collapsing and taking less space on our brains"

> Chunking?

Vertical learning:
Given an topic , and then details about it. This isn't good because it remains as one discrete thing.
Horizontal:
breadth-first. e.g. taking one characteristic of a disease, then group with other conditions with that same characteristic.
\> grouping, priming

Experts in a field are better on memorizing information about that field than a complete novice

> chess players memorizing positions

some times, memorizing things well comes down to having less to remember.

- people seeing things for the first time will have no intuition, and see a lot of new information .

> Having these mental models, ontologies, comparations, sortings help with learning.
