2023-09-04

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sA8E0rYQcFY>
The method of learning that is most usual ( learn, write note, revise notes,
apply information ) is relatively modern. It comes about from the creation of
formal education and schools.

Imagining a world in which we only learn through experience
We usually don't learn unless it is relevant to a problem that needs to be solved.
The modern way is pretty artificial.
The brain does not want to keep information that is purpose-less

> Forgetting is an active process.

The first step is to increase the relevancy of what you're learning right now.

> 11:20 to jump straight to the point. His point is that we should begin
> experimenting based on reality and only after try to theorize what happened
> instead of the opposite way around. So the first step is to have an
> posteriori understandment of the subject and the final step is to have the
> aprioristic understandment based on the scientific method. I  agree with his
> argument since aprioristic and isolated knowledge is just alienating and
> unnatural.

Confirmation Inquiry
Structured Inquiry
Guided Inquiry
Open Inquiry

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OFNhVf66MbU>

Anchoring yourself to your nearest / ultimate goal. -> Concrete: "Be a really
good cardiologist". Tangible, Specific.
What would it take to get there? the steps along the way : yearly; monthly
steps. At the end of the month, how would you know that you're closer or not?

It is very difficult. Is is hard to know, at the small scale. Thus, we usually
track ourselves with bigger goals -> Comparing  to a version  of yourself that
is far-removed from the current context.

It is very difficult to know the necessary steps required to take you where you
wan tto go, which is way it makes very little sense to measure yourself this
way.

Measuring based on outcomes is a very frustrating proposition. It is very
binary ( either you get or you don't )

'What is the type of person that would achieve that outcome' can work better in
these cases, as it provides a set of traits that can be measurably improved
upon.
e.g. "It would take a very balanced person -> I should sleep more / better sleep schedule"

> Inversion

> Better yet, if you have long term goals, work backwards so you can make
> better short term goals that help you get to those longer term goals and
> measure your progress accurately so you know whether you're actually
> accomplishing those short term goals and if you need to change those goals
> after careful introspection and hypothesis testing with good data gathering
> that is relevant to the result instead of the effort It's actually about not
> glamourizing the goals, and not being fixed in the path of doing what your
> meant to do. Instead adopting traits of the person who will find the tasks
> and your goals as a part of their journey and will have an easier time doing
> things. Glamourizing things such as "How many hours I am putting in" is
> always going to lead you astray and towards being unhappy because it never
> feels enough.
