2023-08-30

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5zT_2aBP6vM>

Mind maps

guidelines ( GRINDE ):
Grouped
Reflective
Interconnected
Non-verbal
Directional
Emphasized

The notes are a reflection of the learning.

Grouped:
When we have ideas, we hshould be aiming into organizing it into
categoriese and buckets

> Chunking

Reflective
Whatever your notes are, this should be an reflection of what is
going on your mind. Linear writing isn't how we normally  learn;

Interconnected
We're grouping these ideas and categories  , and connecting them
between each other; More connections that go outside of the "obvious" ones

Non-verbal
We're always using verbal methods to learn; Using various modes of
stimulation increases learning, retention, motivation, creativity

Directional
Arranging these connections in such a way that there is a
directionality , an ordering. This fives us flow, that is, cause and effect
relationships ( logical framework )

Emphasized
Make the main point more distinctive

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e0yZPaJddLU>

When you want too much out of life, either you drop priorities and sacrifice ,
or get a bigger plate

> The will to power
> People are not driven by pursuit of happiness, the want to avoid pain or loss.
> It is now always based on survival. People will put themselves under
> voluntary misery; The sense of fulfilment and satisfaction with life is to live
> you life along this `Will to power`

- The ability to live in the way you want to live, live the ilfe you want to
  live, and being the person you want to be.

Without a higher level of efficiency, you don't get to do any of that, you
can't have everything that you want; Its not about how much you want on your
plate, it is the fact that it is not big enough.

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Y2XrFLg4cY>

Pomodoro
25 min workclock, followed by 5 minutes rest clock.

"We're often to caught up with the fact that it *is* effective to think about *why* it is effective. It is also not *always* useful"
Extract the principles behind it.

\[\[Attention Residue]]

When you start a stask, your attention and focus is dictated by attention residude that is left behind the previous task
It is necessary to clean that away before starting the new one.

The time pressure from the pomodoro reduces the attention residue:

1. at the end of the time, knowing the upcoming break, our Brain is primed to
   wrap up that task cleanly so we can go into that break; In that break time
   any ligering attention residue can be cleanly dealt with. At the start of the
   next time , the residue has dissipated and does not negatively affects it.
2. Time pressure affects our ability to be distracted. The time cages in our focus.

clean beginning
Reduce distractions
Clean and intentional finalisation.

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=olX0mXl1B9s>

Limitations of the pomodoro

- breaks
- work length

The ideal time to work and rest is a combination that produces the highest
overall level of productive output over a time ( which is longer than a single
cycle of the pomodoro, e.g. a week, a semester )

When working, We want to work at the highest level of efficiency ( or close )
Stop working when you're not sharp anymore (e.g. 50% ) .  Pushing further means
we take longer recoveries

> Do not eat until you're full; eat till you're not hungry anymore.

The break time should be around 25% to 33% of the you were working for.
What should we be doing during that break?

- mindless browsing is not that good - it does away with the intentionality we set for ourselves, and breaks the attention residue rule.
- Rest intentionally. e.g. Meditation, or something that maintains your flow
  state such as being productive with housework or organizing your room, going
  for an stroll.

___
