2023-08-27

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=79DPLMHYVjQ>

- Priming
  gives the lay of the land. Big picture ideas. Don't get sucked in at the details.
  Is this pre-study?
  \-> It is what we're aiming to do with pre-study, but not every pre-study would make effective priming.

- The focus, during a lecture, should not be in understanding what they say, but in applying and simplifying
  > Impacient Conversation

two mind states of learning?

- exploration , discovery, very genuine logical learning. Intuitive understanding ->> Mind Maps
- rote memorization; This is where spaced repetition and forgetting curves are effective. ->> Flashcards
  Try to be more organic, problem-solving, logic-building.

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l-NardIzpEg>
Reduce procrastination

1. Cueing and prepping the environment
   - There is a cue in the enviroment that leads to doing the thing.
   - Makes it easy to do the thing, minimize distractions.
2. Minimum viable goals
   - very, very small. "I'm gonna open my book" -> `Surf the Urge`
   - the hardest part to everything is *starting*.

Removing prep-work, minimize fiction.

> Mis en place
> Willpower exhaustion

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-YXrTWUZKn4>

Keep focus, motivation

Classical condition ( pavlovian )

- very primitive reflex that can be created
- hard to overcome with willpower alone
- we can condition ourselves, so we're not able even if we want to
- on the other hand, bad things can be under this condition too.

Focus

1. Conditioning ourselves to enter in a state of focus so many times taht the activities ( ritual / routine ) delives the focus right away

2. Mental Transition
   Focus zones ( environment prepping ? )
   - Distractions cheatlist ; Note down and systematically remove
     Rituals e.g. breathworks, meditation

3. Rest-Work timing.
   Never work until you feel tired. Only until you're not sharp anymore.
   Interleaves
   You ability to learn and apply information when you apply that information in different contexts and styles.
   Taking what you want to achieve from different angles and styles have a profound effect on how to do things.
   e.g.
   Let the mind wander and note down any questions / gaps.
   talk with people about that thing.
   Active Relaxation
   After this break you need to get back to it. So you do things such as dedicated meditation, stroll, etc.
   Passive Relaxation
   Whatever, garbage day. Does not matter if you get back to it or not.

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AvAhtiZcpTU>

The low-risk approach is that you slowly remove the `external dependency` of learning

1. Rely on the `act of` notetaking, studying, reading. ( learning as a byproduct of the process )
   This means that you see things in a closed process.
   "The act of highlightining makes it easier to go back to it later"
2. Internal focus
   "From a learning point of view, does highlighting help me `learn it`?

Different levels of learning and understanding, and various frameworks

- Solo Taxonomy ( Basic Recognition .... Apply that in abstract contexts )

Memorization is a different type of learning compared to logical understanding.

- It is a form of learning that allows to anchor and force relevance

how to move from one to the other?
