2023-11-04

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2_U0n2KciB0>

Daily reflection.

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_7vM5wEUz_s>

The inverted pyramid methoid

3H - Most important task
2H - 2nd Most important task
3H - least important task

Pareto Principle

Breaks when necessary , no scheduling

Focus

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aRHTEhQp1g0>

Why hard work rarely beats talent. There are two missing ingredients

Formula for sucess => `Sucess = HardWork * talent * ( __ )`

Hardwork can be futile -> Stress, Pressure, Anxienty

1. Hardwork has diminishing returns
2. Effort is fuel. -> If the amount of effort you were putting in is
   reasonable, and you're not getting cnsistent results, you probably should
   get better methods.
3. Effort vs Output: When working hard, you want to build an 'asset' -
   Something that improves cash without doing more work. So, figure out how to
   work smart, and then feel free to work hard as well.

Hard work and talent are not the only variables in the equation. Formula for
sucess is really => `Sucess = HardWork * talent * processes`

> Talent is actually the natural ability for someone intuitively use more
> optimal processes.

1. Pull Back - If you're at 100% capacity, you can't spare the time to figure
   out how to work harder
2. Known more things - if you can't work smarter because you don't know how,
   then... learn to work smarter.

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qriNOmeSrmI>

Don't call it only procrastination - specifiy the behaviour. It is a whole
category of behaviour ( Social media scrolling, Watching tv, eating sweets,
snoozing alarms ) that leads to undesirable outcome. The day we deal with each
one is different.

1. By being specific abotu the behaviour we can be specific with the intervention.
   - Think about the  Environment and the triggers as well.
   - Behaviours are a sympton of something else
   - make the desirable behaviour ridiculously easy to do, and the undesirable
     behaviour thake a ridiculous amount of effort to do

2. Focus on the driver of the behaviour

Example: Trying to study , but end up binge watching:
( Triggers are the things that activate habits )

| Intentions | Events Before             | Events During                       | Events Result                     | Feelings                             | Triggers                        |
| ---------- | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| Study      | Eating dinner, planned to | Thought about going downstairs and  | Ended up turning the tv on and    | Inittially motived and focused,      | comfortable couch, netflow logo |
|            | study afterwards          | open book, but decided to spent 20m | watching a show netflix suggested | but overwhelmed about where to start | and new series recommendation   |
|            |                           | digesting in the couch after dining |                                   |                                      |                                 |

Changes:

- Log out of  Netflix
- Move the couch
- Don't plan on studying after dinner
- Get my books out in advance
- Have a clear study plan in place
- Keep your shoes on to prevent layin on couch
- Use transition ritual like boiling the kettle for tea or coffer
- Use background noise to get started
- go to the library

VERY SPECIFIC

- If we were sleepy or tired -> change sleep schedule, change time of day spent studying
- If social media was distractive -> app blockers

First step is always identify the behaviour.
Think of yourself as an evil behaviour architect, indirectly manipulating then
to do this  exact behaviour

3. In case it doesn't work, it is possible that you're addicted: Slow your brain down.
   Your brain has becomed addicted to short dopamine hits

- Remove distractions
- Start mindfulness meditation
- Your brain should slow down overtime
- This is the hardest part.

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Z7frfjiEcM>

4 ways

1. Aim High

> What would Jesus do?
> What type of behaviours, Actions, Characteristics -> Can help yourself work smarter, not harder.

2. Cram ( Early )
   Pre-study, actually.
   The right way:

`Anchor Points of relevance`

3. Build Prior Knowledge
   consolidate it at the time of learning ( first consuming )

> Pick the path of most relevance

4. Be strategic with your resources
   Aim at self-regulated learning

Never compromise on the non-negotiables

> Are you really wanting help? Or are you just wanting validation for why it's hard for you?

___
