2023-09-16

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bk4718yjJM4>

`Information Processing Theory`

- How the brains filters information from the sensory inputs , and gets into the working and finally long-term memory.
- Consolidating long-term memory happens in stages:

sensory input -> sensory memory
sensory memory -> working memory : attention
working memory -> long term memory : encoding
working memory -> working memory: rehersal
long term memory -> working memory -> recall / retrieval

Enconding, Storage, Retrieval

Retrieval is also impacted by how the memroy is encoded

`Cognitive Load Theory`
Focused on the working memory.

"Schemas" : the overarching mental models encoded inside the long term memory.

"In order to learn more effectively, the limits of the working memory must be respected, and few pieces of information must be put there at a time."
Overloading the working memory will be likely to forget.

There are Types of cognitive load

1. Intrinsic : Simple topics require little , complex topics require large amounts of space.
   Total Complexity is fixed, but Chunking can be used to reduce those into manageable sizes and to speed up how fast the brains picks it up.
2. Extraneous: Information not relevant, ( method used, channel noisyness )
   Reducing Extraneous is the primary role of teachers ( whether they know it or not )
   `Split attention effect`, `Redundancy effect`
3. Germane: creating a new schema for that info, and integrating it into existing knowledge

Optimization:

- Simplify diffucutlity
- reducie irrelevant info
- organize and link into existing

1. Activate Prior Knowledge
   ( related information already in the long term memory to information just entering the system )
2. Organize things into a meaningful way ( priming )
3. Deep processing
4. Distributed Practice ( Spacing, not cramming )
5. Scaffolding : Gradually introducing the brain into more complex topics
6. Modality effect: Auditory and visual items don't compete in the same way that two visual ones do

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VklLcNaJpXc>

Skimming first to gather context.
Rough outlines of the ideas / structure
While surface-reading, create some retrieval questions

- It is fine to have some fact-based questions, they help situate the mind.
- Do go for more deep work questions though.
  Link back to your personal experiences.

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VcT8puLpNKA&t=28s>

`bloom taxonomy`

"Understanding is not high -order because it is still pretty isolated"

1. remember ->
2. understand ->
3. apply ->
4. analyze ->
5. evaluate ->
6. create

`solo's taxonomy`

1. Pre-structural
2. Unistructural
3. Multisctructural
4. Relational
5. Extended abstract

In order to get good encoding, it is necessary to relate between each other and the bigger picture.

"Buffering" -> read / study for a bit longer, then synthesise . Don't write linear notes, really .
This builds up cognitive load tolerance

> Chunk-mapping , interleaving, micro-learning , rote learning techniques

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TmVsYQ4WSHc>

"Rate limiting step"
\-> e.g. Relying only with active recall and spaced repetition

1. How will I retrieve this information? therefore, how do i want to organize this?

- Mental Schema
  \-> need to create super and sub chunks.
  \-> Why is this important , and how do these piece of information relate to each other?
- Confusion is a sign of higher intrinsic cognitive load, which promotes higher quality encoding

> order control, syntopical reading
