2023-09-14

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0N0LV0mqTYQ>

Discipline is usually thought of as being the exertion of will power.
However, this eventually run out, leaving this process harder than it should be.
That is why people focus on habit.
What about discipline? Why is it hard?

discipline is an emotion.
while working with addicts, usually what is done is emotion work.
What is emotion

- we figured out that there is emotional structures in the brain ( amigdala,
  limbic system )  for some emotions, but what about the good ones? they're not
  localized

> story: make sure, before meditating, to put the bucket on the cat. then the cat dies

Opposites are in the same categories.

- Heavy and light are in the same category - weight
- blue and red and in the same category - color
- hot and cold are in the same category - temperature

`Doubt` ( or a waivering mind ) is the opposite of `discipline`.
What is the opposite of doubt? `Resolve`.
When someone is resolved, they act disciplined.

functions in your brain can come from two places

- a structure ( a anatomical structure, a chunk of tissue ) such as the amigdala.
- a circuit ( a series of connection from different parts of the brain )

On cultivitating discipline

1. Notice when you feel resolved.
2. `Sankalpa` - pick one thing that you want to be resolved.

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u2Ogza-n3i0>

1. You can overdose on learning techniques
   > A `therapeutic index` is the range in which something is good for you. e.g. too little and a drug has no effect, too much and it can harm you.
   > Be careful about exploiting too early , and lose sight of exploring.
2. Don't create learning debt
   The methods used in the present may create problems for your future self.
   Re-learn things properly in a way that it is useful
   - Identify your retrieval needs ( what do you need to know, how do you need to know and think about it, how long )
   - Map current learning process ( what do you do when information comes in? )
   - Challenge your reasoning ( why do use the methods and process that you use? do these allow you to achieve the needs you have ? )
   - Learn and experiment
   > "You have the knowledge, but you aren't being able to apply it to real patients"
3. No pain no gain - `desirable difficulty`
   To build expertise:
   - Know things about the subject
   - Know how to use what you know to make sense of new information

> Jigsaw puzzle is a pretty good model of knowledge aggregation.

Studying only leads to learning when

1. The information is encoded in your memory
2. You can Use that knowledge through retrieval

___

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VcT8puLpNKA&t=40s>

Encoding

- Not being so reliant on spaced-repetition and active recall
