# 2023-08-21

## Writing

### <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-U7D4Fw67Zs>

Ways to schedule the day away from the constraints of a clock.
If you've already scheduled before, and going through the motion, and it felt
like a chore / unsustainable.

Focus and Attention management > Time Management
Time Management is reach for because people recognize the issue that they find
it difficult to get things done throughout the day. They *feel* a lack of time.
What we truly feel is not lack of time, is lack of result or a lack of ability
to do some activity.
"If you had infinite time, would that solve the problem?"
Unintively, no, because during that time we would end up scheduling and wanting
to do more things.
If a day was one hour only. We would not even TRY to do the same amount of
things we do.

We notice a failure in our behaviour ( or action ) to fulfill a certain set of
tasks or activities that we wanted to to during a set time period
Tasks is not what you should be managing, instead, it should be attention and
focus.

> \[\[Symptoms and Causes]]

Imagine that we're in a boat, going through a current ( time ).
It is flowing, and inside the boat, we don't have a really great grasp at how
fast it is going or how far we've come

> \[\[Discontinuous Mind]]

Time Management:
At a certain point, we need to turn, and the duration of each.
What if we do not properly turn? What happens to the rest of the day and the
rest of the turns.

Dead Time: A span of time spent doing an activity where the focus and attention
isn't directed towards something specifically, and can be freed up.
e.g : Commuting -> Podcasting while doing so.

> What you're doing with your time is sometimes fixed. But what you do with you
> focus and attention is up to your discretion.

There is a lot of time wasted between activities here and there.
In between tasks, for example.

Your objective is not to fill the time, your objective is to `get things done`.
