# 2022-03-25
alright. what do we have to do today?
Lets start with leet, shall we.

#

"Move to closing scope" ta bastante fora de mao aqui no alt+n {}
    Create a "get" postfix completion for strings that transform it to charAt
    create template for Math.max and Math.min ( is this the same as greatest?)
    Create a postfix to put expression inside if
    override intellij if template 
    change 'fun' template to have end inside parenthesis
    create prefixSum , letterFreq template
    create min / max ... postfix completions for arrays.



# 

    and why is the cost to change every letter in a to be strictly lower than b equal to
        a.length() - cumSumA[ i ] + cumSumB[ i ]

    ``a.length()`` is clear, its the maximum possible cost to changing A, which is, changing all its letters. 
        This , alongside other problems, hints at a common theme : identify a possible maximum / minimum, and detract / add possibilities. 
    
        The cumsum also presents a theme, albeit a little different: having the insight to realize that there are only 26 lower case letters means we can enumerate them. More generically, this also means "Identify lower / maximum bounds", and fill between them, if feasible.

    cumSumA[i]  is the number of letters in A that are smaller or equal than the ith letter. We detract it from a.length because we know that we don't need to change those. => Thinking of (a.length() - cumsumA[i]) as a single value "Number of letters to change" makes more sense. 

    cumSumB[i] is the number of letters in B that are smaller or equal than the ith letter. We add it to the cost because we know that we DO need to change those. 



#
    
    Now, for the hard part:

    Why is the cost to have exactly one different equals to
        var res = a.length() + b.length()
                  - max(freqsA)
                  - max(freqsB)

        maybe interpreting it as 
        ( a.length() - max( freqsA ) ) +
        ( b.length() - max(freqsB))
        makes more sense. 
            each of these quantities represent the number of letters in a that are not the most frequent. 
    
    turns out that the problem  was interpretation. the objective is not tho make them have only one *different* letter, but to make each of them composed of only one *distinct* letter, so: only a or only b or only c...
    
#

. The live plugin and custom postfix templates all provide interesting  possibilities to developing on intelliJ.

. re-follow feeds on feedly. 
    . look through the domains and maybe classify them?
