# 2022-06-16

<http://trevorjim.com/attack-is-on-defense/>

However, novelty is not the same as an advance in knowledge, and making novelty a requirement for publication actually harms the advance of knowledge.

___

<https://erikbern.com/2015/06/05/the-hardest-challenge-about-becoming-a-manager.html>
I think what happens in your brain is you create all these proxies for accomplishments that take years to retrain. I would be incredibly costly if every action was judged in terms of its benefits amortized over your entire life time. Instead, we humans have an ability to invent pretty arbitrary proxies, such as getting high scores on exams, or in my case, write shitloads of code.

Proxies are great because they let you make decisions much quicker.

After a few years of doing something very consciously (programming is good because I can build this cool game and show it to my friends) you build up this great rewards system (kind of like Pavlov's dogs?) that makes you feel good about it in itself (programming is cool because I feel good when I do it).

The problem is when your ultimate goal changes and your old proxies are still in effect.

___

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Requirements_analysis>

Requirement ANalaysis

* Documented
* Actionable
* testable
* traceable
* related to identified business needs or opportunities
* defined to a level of detail sufficient for system design

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Problem_frames_approach>

Problem Analysis is an approach to be used when gathering requirements and creating specifications for computer software

* The best way to approach requirement analysis is through a process of parallel - not hierarchical - decomposition of user requirements.
* User requirements are about relationships in the real word , not about the software or even the interface.
  
Tools for describing specific problems

* phenomena ( of various kinds , including events )
* problem context
* problem domain
* solution domain
* shared phenomena ( ehich exist in domain interfaces )
* domain requirements
* speciffications ( which exist at the problem domain - machine interface )

Tools for describing classes of problems
"A recognized class of problems is called a problem frame."
In a problem frame, domain are given general names and described in terms of their important characterisitscs,.

* Causal ( deterministic )
* Biddabble ( can be asked to respond, but not necessarily predictable - usually people)

Problem Frames

* Required behaviour
* Commanded behaviour
* Information Display
* SImple workpieces
* Transformation

"a software development project aims to change the problem context by creating a software machine and adding it to the problem context, where it will bring about certain desired effects."

A domain is simply a part of the world that we are interested in . It consists of phenomena ( indifviduals, events, states of affairs, relationships and behaviours. )

Domain interfaces are not dataflows or messages. An interface is a place  where domains partially overlap, so that the phenomena in the interface are shared phenomena - they exist in both of the overlapping domains.

In a sense, problem frames are problem patterns.

BookAnalysisPatterns
martin fowler

"If this is the solution, what was the problem?"

<https://people.csail.mit.edu/dnj/teaching/6898/lecture-notes/session8/slides/mj-problem-frames.pdf>
The customer requirement is for some effect ( or property or behaviour in the problem domain )
"the requirement adds a constraint to the domains's intrisic properties or behaviour"
 
Real world phenomena may be untimely for dispaly - must be remembered summarised, extrapolated


Heuristics for decomposition
* Recognize instaces of problem frames
* More than one tempo
* 

___
QUantified Self. 
Statistics on volume, size and frequency of inocming messages, time taken to reply, and so on. 


____
SOftware Bloat as Paper Folding.


___
<https://9-volt.github.io/bug-life/?repo=rust-lang/rust>
what is the name of this type of graph?
