# 2022-03-16

todo:

    Resolver Pendencias identidade
    better auto hotkeys usage

prefix trees and monte-carlo trees
    ( exploration and explotation )
    i though about this when thinking about the process of learning a new keyboard layout configuration
    we start pecking, a single key
    when getting better, we start to type more and more advanced sequences, starting with doubles, them syllables, then entire words and phrases.

    this process of getting deeper into this prefix tree of sequences reminds me of monte-carlo-tree-searching.

    What would be the parallels here? what would be exploration and explotation?
    its very fun to do it guitar hero style, with a music in the background.

palyndrome check

    we can take advantage of these structured patterns by way of 
        
        decomposing the whole into its constituents
        composing the fundamental blocks into the whole
    
    all according to the pattern rules.

    An example of this manifests itself in 
    https://leetcode.com/problems/palindromic-substrings/ 
    here, we could brute force and test all the substrings, but that would take n^2 time.
    Instead we can realize that a palyndrome contains a palidrome.
    That is, if W is a palidrome, then w[1:-1] is also a palidrome , assuming bound checking. 
    This goes both ways: we can decompose a palindrome or we can compose a new one, by adding the same character to both ends.
    In this example, we could start with the trivial palindrome, a single character. 
    For each seed character, we check its left | right neighbors, and  if they're the same, we know we have a new palindrome.
    

    another way to visualize this, would be a matrix, of length x length

    each index correspond to a starting and end position, and contain 1 or 0, depending if the associated substring is a palindrome or not.
