# 2022-03-23

today is gonna be a good day
need to get used to this extend layer
i'll map some omre keys into altgr and the caps lock
    . Done the workspace ones.

possibly get started with the angle and wide mod
(wide mode in particularly seems very useful )

Need to consolidate my quick lists and macros:
Quick list for the run menu. ( Alt + s , Tab)
Make a quick list for the new file ( alt + m , ctrl + n )

Today i also made a bunch of quick lists for IJ , and started experimenting wih macros and micro plugins.

I also got a bit more used with the extend layer.
I genuinely want to experiment with the wide , angle,  and sym.

 Yesterday at night i was thinking about seting up some other mods.
 Such as dead-key-sticky modifiers.
    for example, `+shift would save this modifier , and release it along with the next key.
    Isn't this just a case of 'compose' key?
    or a  rev-compose?

Today was another day full of basically only configuraitons.
    I was thinking "Hey , it seems like we're going nowhere, how so? It FEELS like my days are all full, but thinking back, it doesn't seem like alot was done"
    Sure, we're not going anywhere. THats because we're not walking, we're unobstructing the ways for when we start ( soon ). I believe we will start walking in a week or so.
    We'll finish the intellij configurations, which mewans we should be golden for leet coding.
    Don't feorget we're also versioning everything.
        Soon , the feedly -> pocket -> random workflow will start showing its progress.
            I need to develop the habit of going though it in a careful and mindful manner .
            Remember We're playing the long game.
            i'm also seriously considering doing that page. How much time do i think it would take, honestly? To send 5 requests to pocket's api?
            Around 2 days? sounds about right.
            Starting this should be great, since further personalizations become easier.
    This thought just crossed myt head : what if i proceed with the following process in my zettelkasten?
        Everyday, i simply record a stream of conciousness in the daily file.
        Everyday, RIGHT BEFORE i start studying ( if i start studying ) , i go over these streams of consciousness, putting them in their belonging places.
            . This makes starting studying a very easy process.
            . The mean time between loggin the stream and compiling it, serves as a "backburner" to digest the thoughts before "cementing" them into place.

        Could i use a keylogger to gather statistics about my keystrokes?
            SOmething along the lines of 
            https://github.com/t184256/ngram-keylogger
            https://github.com/GiacomoLaw/Keylogger
            https://github.com/calebfergie/keylogger-parsing
