# 2022-03-17



there are some things that i wanna do today,
these involve autohotkeys and workspace management
i'm tired of doing 'win+tab' to manage workspaces
i wanna go 'win+1' to go to my first workspace, 
or 'win+s+1' to send the current tab to the first workspace.
Just better workspace management in general.


I Also want to filter my youtube and feedly subscriptions.
Lots of no-longer-relevant youtube channels. Maybe version them.

Same goes for the feedly subscriptions. Lots of sites that have good 'one-of' but fail to deliver long time.  Also versionable.

    I'll write down a list of sites whose blogs need to be evaluated for nuggets.
    Since these need to be queried only very very seldonly, maybe we can do a daily batch job, and email the ( if any ) found articles.

I'm recently been learning to use the dvorak keyboard. 
One thing that is getting more and more ingrained into my mind , while consciently practiceing my second keyboard language is createing parallells between the first and second times

first we geet a grip of the position of the each individiaul letter. 
Then we can start chucnking these knowledges into bigger pictures.
first into syllables, them into words and them into whole sentences. 
A thing to note though, is that stablishing the chunk bondaries is an act that can have big consequences into the ingraning process. 
For example, when starting to chunk the words into syllabes, it maybe be natural to chuikc the work "letting" into "let" and "ting" . From my experience, though , chunking it into "lett" and "ing" has a far better effect - since the "ing" final is very common in other words, this second chunking has far more generalizing capabilities. 
A parallel that came to my mind was about software creating and testing. 
We start by creating small implementations that compose ( chunk ) into bigger ones.   
The process of chunking the software into "Testable" ( or reproducible, re-usable ) parts, is analogous to finding out the best "character chunks".
Sure, its easy to think about it and realize it post-hoc, after two given possibilities are presented and compared, and one is declared as a winner. 
However, how do we go about finding out these delimitations in a structured manner? 
Sure, Noticing patterns while practing helps. However, this doesn't seen very scientific to me...


aNOTHER THING THAT IS COMIN GINTO MY MIND NOW IS ABOUT EMBRACING THE MONKEY BRAIN. 
Surely, not all types of activies are the same, they exercise and require different parts of the brain, and work best when in different states of mind. 
We can then, instead of forcing our brain into a desired state, keep a list of activities, and pick one accordinly to our current "mind mood". 
A thought that is coming into my mind, is that by working in an activity, we kinda tire that part of our brain ( not necessrily tire, but the point is that our brain transitions from one activity to another ). So, LAYERING different kinds of activity we may be able to achieve better productivity.
    Somehow link this to  HealthyGamerGG DOPAMINISTIC activities. 
    maybe a dopaministic activity is just a kind? 
        . SO we could categorize each activity into some number of axes. For example:
            Long/Short term gains: Dopaministic vs the other one
            Active/Passive action:
            Multi-Taskable | Requires sole atention; 
            ... 



There is a lot of potential with regards to intellij Quick-Lists and External tools.

check out obsidian rss feed.

I need to stop wasting time with things that are not needed 'right now'.

