# 2022-03-15


Array
	-> Two most primitive array operations are writing elemenbts into them, and reading elements from them
	-> All other array operations are built on top of these two primitives.
	
	-> There is a difference between the array capacity and its length.
		-> Capacity is the number of objects the array COULD hold, it it was full.
		-> Length is the number of objects currently in the array.
		
        
i need to set down a lot of things

One of them is my leet code "environment"    
I plan to do some leet code every day. It is already setup at canelhasmateus/leet
    I'm currently investigating leetcode.com courses and challenges.
    It would be nice to automate the process, of course. However, that can take quite a bit of time.


Another one of my current endeavours should be to setup my linux terminal, alongside my powershell terminal. 
Would love to also supplement some vim learning. 
Is there any way to force myself to learn vim?

Others endeavours are:
    Continue with my zettelkasten / knowledge base shenanigans. Using Foam instead of obsidian should be very very very nice. Many thanks to @tandy
Also, remember to continually use habitica.


[[bitwise operations]] can be use to implement some cyclical behaviour:
    
    1 ^ 2 ^ 1  ^ 1 ^ 1 ... 
    1 -> 3 -> 2 -> 3 -> 2 ...

Note that the maximum possible XOR result is always 2^(maximumBit) - 1

    MAX =    11111111111 ( this is the maximum result with n bits )
    NUMBER = 11101010001 ( consider a random number.)
    !NUMBER= 00010101110 ( this is the bitwise difference )

    to achieve the highest number, we perform the difference ( + !)
    

    why?
Prefix Sum


