# 2022-04-22


it seems i finished reasonably early today. 
i have around 2 hours of "free" time right now. 
How could i spend it in a useful way?
    . I could go over some of my quests , and pick one according to my mood. 


___


Talk and Move Slower
Talk Less
Sharpen up Physically 
Don't always be available



___


👉 Automate Win, Mac, and Linux
We have automated web apps and smartphones then why not the Operating Systems. This automation script will automate Win, Mac, and Linux using the PyautoGui module in Python. Try the Code now!
# Automate Win, Mac and Linux
# pip install PyAutoGUI
import pyautogui as py
# Mouse Movements
py.moveTo(100, 100)
py.moveTo(200, 200, duration=1)
py.click(100, 100)
py.doubleClick(200, 200)
# Keyboard Inputs
py.write('Hello World!', interval=0.25)
py.press('enter')
py.hotkey('ctrl', 'c')
py.keyDown('shift')
py.keyUp('shift')
# Screen Automation
img = py.screenshot('screenshot.jpg')
img.save('screenshot.jpg')
loc = py.locationsOnScreen('icon.jpg')
print(loc)


___

Leadership principles

OwnerShip
* A leader must own the entire lifecycle of their decision
* Feel the pain, brainstorm the solution, get the proper stakeholder buy-in , help build the solution and prove it works now and in the future. 

Bias For action
* Ponder the consequences, but not be indecisive
 
Invent and simplify
* Seek to improve
* push the boundaries of what can be created
* Humble enough to accept their own limitations and adopt solutions from others.
  


___

https://towardsdatascience.com/data-analysts-primer-to-slowly-changing-dimensions-d087c8327e08

Slowly changing dimensions

Data warehouusing concept 
Type 0 : Never Changes
Type 1 : Only the latest snapshot is recorded, without historical records
Type 2 : Entire Change history is recorded, through adding rows
Type 3 : Changes are recorded through adding column ( Rare )
Type 4 : Current record and history are in separated tables ( )


___



devise a POST-It necklace
    .  contains a stack of small notes
    . each one describe what i'm doing right now
        .. For example: "Lunching" , "AWS Cert"
    . Can push and pop to the stack at any time
    . would help me with "what i'm doing now or next, anyways?"

 
___


https://andersource.dev/2022/04/19/dk-autocorrelation.html

"For year i thought myself relatively immune to this. Of course, i'm not - All it tookk was the right trigger."

Why is statistics the "stamp of quality " of a lot of scientific research?

Statistics is an attemp to objectively quantify surprise
    .if iam surprised, it indicates a conflict between my model of reality and reality. Thus, i ought to update my model 